---
layout: blog
title: Yeoman Generator 0.17.0 prerelease 1
---

Allo' allo' here's [Simon](https://github.com/SBoudrias) for the Yeoman team.

After about a month without release of the core system, we're really happy to announce [yeoman-generator version 0.17.0-pre.1](https://github.com/yeoman/generator/releases/tag/v0.17.0-pre.1). The release cycle have been delayed because this is a fairly big release!

First of all, it is published on NPM as a pre-release. Make sure to install it with `npm install yeoman-generator --tag pre`.

Follow through for an overview of the major changes.

## Composability

As stated on our [2014 roadmap](https://github.com/yeoman/yeoman/issues/1264), composability is our next major core feature.

Composability will allow us to write smaller base generators for common needs, and allow higher level generator from using them. That'll make for more centralized works and improvements. For example, we'll only need a single CSS or Bootstrap generator. Every other generator will be able to fully concentrate on their domain problems and rely on base generators to handle the rest.

With 0.17, we bring two major improvements to ease composability issues: a run loop and the `composeWith` method.

### Run loop

With Yeoman each methods on a generator's prototype is considered a task and is runned in a synchronous serie. When composing generators, that meant `generator1` would run all of its methods, then it'd call `generator2` who'd then be allowed to run.

To allow generators to really run side by side, we needed to allow them to run together instead of one after the other.

To make this happens, we implemented a run loop that register task with particular priorities. Higher priorities will run first, and lower priorities would run at the end.

You can read the full documentation about the run loop inside our [new documentation](https://github.com/yeoman/yeoman.io/blob/master/app/authoring/running-context.md#the-run-loop). This documentation is still WIP and will be released with 0.17.0 complete.

### `composeWith()`

This new method is almost like the previous `invoke` method. The only difference being it'll add the composed generator to the run loop.

You can read more about `composeWith` [in our new documentation](https://github.com/yeoman/yeoman.io/blob/master/app/authoring/composability.md).

## Enjoy testing your Generators

Unit testing a generator can be daunting. To ease the pain, we included in this release new tests helpers creating a `RunContext` object that'll take care of setting up a generator for you.

[Read the documentation](https://github.com/yeoman/yeoman.io/blob/master/app/authoring/testing.md) to learn more about it!

## And then?

As you can see, this is a pretty major release. The run loop is not exactly a breaking change, but it could cause issues if name "conflict" with a priority.

We launch this pre-release to allow you to test it and bring as much feedback as we can before carving 0.17 features into stone. Please update your generators and tell us how it's been!

Until next time!
